Now in this lecture we will create the views for showing the user profile for the controller that we
already have and will create another view for displaying a forum so users can upload the new image for
the profile.
So this won't bring us very far to understanding one to one polymorphic relationships.
It's just for for you to code along with me.
And in case you feel confident you can just skip this lecture and just grab the girl code from the github
which is always included in the link under the lecture if you feel like coding then just let us continue
and create those views.
Okay so let's go ahead and implement those views.
Start by creating the users folder inside resources views users and create two files.
The edit blade peach P for displaying the form to modify user avatar and probably also user data and
second one show blade peach which will be used to display the user profile after creating those views.
We can go back to the controller and immediately render them using that view helper function.
So in the case of showing the profile this would be users show and will pass the user as an argument
to the view.
So notice we already have user instance fetched here and also the edited form.
We can do return return view users.
EDIT Notice also how we named those views and all the actions.
So in this case we want to have to remember what is the view name because it's always the same as the
controller action.
And here we all also pass the user instance which is also fetched.
Using the root model binding.
Okay let's then go back to the edit view and implemented by adding the form.
Now we will begin this template by adding that extends directive and specifying the layout.
Each should extend then we are adding section content.
This would be rendered inside this layout.
Now we will surround everything with a form tag as basically everything here would be part of the forum
and now important things about the forum.
The method has to be post as you know there is only get or post since we are submitting data to rules
that will be actually put route.
We will also add another directive to specify that also we will be uploading files so we need any type
multipart forum data then we will need an action.
So let's render that.
The route is users update
and then we specify a parameter which is user
and we read that from the user that we get past to this particular view.
Finally will wants to make this form horizontal so let's use the bootstrap class form.
Horizontal sorry I've misspelled the name horizontal
okay and now inside the form we need CSF ref protection.
So I think this direct directive is necessary.
This would send a token that is then get gets confirmed inside lateral application.
Now the method is actually boot.
So we had to specify that because the end point we would like to send it to this one is actually using
the put method.
So we just can't send it using post and now finally inside the forum we'll create greed.
So we are adding one element D class row and then on the left side will display the user image.
So let's add one div and another one here.
OK.
Now this sub this page would be one third two thirds split so this div has to have column for
and the second one will have the class column 8 because there are always 12 columns inside bootstrap
Greta and this would take one third part of the oldest section and another column would take two thirds
so let's work with the left column first.
So we will need to display an image here.
Let's just add our simple EMG tag right now but also below it.
We would like to allow users to specify a new image.
So this will contain a form element.
We are surrounding it with the card class so it looks nicer.
So as usual there is a devolution card class and incited DPH with the card body class so we can add
age 6 header here with the tags upload on different photo and on input with the class form control file
that's a bootstrap class.
Type of this input e file and name would be Avatar.
Now let's go back to that image.
It will also have some classes.
So one from bootstrap EMG thumb nail.
This would just display the picture with a frame and Avatar.
Because we want this image to always be 128 pixels by hundred twenty eight pixels.
Of course you.
It's not a requirement it doesn't have to be like that but we are just making some assumptions to make
it easier for us.
And in this place will later modify it to actually display this image if it was said.
So now let's work with the right side of the column so we'll add to these elements here first will contain
input for editing the user name.
That's the only thing we have modifiable.
So this would be div class form group.
Let's immediately copy that.
US will also insert another element which would be a submit button.
So this should be very easy.
We just need we just need to add a label and then an input with the form control class no value type.
Text this obviously can be pre filed using the current user name and now finally here we have another
input of type submit.
And this is our submit button.
Class is button and button primary and value will be safe.
Changes and here we can also add name label so user will know what they are actually editing.
Now we also need to add the name attribute for those field which is exactly the same name.
That's the only attribute we would like to allow to modify for the user currently.
But now let's copy this whole template and paste it to the show blade BHP but we'll only make a couple
of changes so we'll remove the form altogether.
This will only display the user profile so we also do not need this field as this is for uploading the
new image and we can remove everything from here we'll just display each free element just for now as
there is only the user name to be displayed.
So let just this played out and also we'll modify this element later.
So it presents the user profile image.
If there is any of course OK so we have those two templates implemented.
They are also being rendered inside the controller.
Now let's also modify one of the few components that we have.
Which is the updated components.
So in case there is provided there is the user I.D. provider will generate a link to the user profile.
So we need to add another slot here and verify that it is being set.
So if insert user I.D. then will display a link.
Otherwise we keep it as it is.
So we just display the user name and if.
Now let's actually implement this user name.
Displaying so this would be by h graph so we need to render the root to the user profile.
So this is users show the parameter name is user and the user I.D. is the user I.D. that is that gets
passed to this particular component.
So let's close the root call here okay.
Now here will render the user name.
And now let's close the graph element.
Okay so the component is updated.
And now let's find places where this is actual used.
So for example on the index template where we have the posts so we are passing the name here.
Now let's also parse the user I.D..
So this is posts post user I.D..
Okay save the changes.
Now let's go to our index page and let's see what we have.
Now you can see that for every user we got a link
so we required authentication so I have to log in first.
But well let's see that again.
So we see the name and there should be a picture here.
So since I am authenticated as John Doe which we should probably remember has the user idea of one.
So if I modify the you URL to be the one for editing form so user slash one slash edit.
Now I see that page you can see that here there is this border around an image that is not displayed
yet.
We'll of course fix that later.
Here we have a nice box for uploading a new profile picture and optionally also modifying the name and
safe changes button so we will implement this logic in the next lectures.
But first of course we have to start implementing our ONE TO 1 polymorphic relationship and understanding
it because we will store all this profile images inside one single images table which will hold the
fun things for blog posts but also avatars for the users.
Now there is one more thing I actually forgot to tell you.
Remember that we have added another class and you seem that I somehow magically have it and you don't.
And this is because I did it before and I have compiled styles which actually contain this avatar class
but I haven't really showed that to you so let's do that now.
So we'll add Avatar class inside the app SPSS file
and specify that the width of the element and haIf of the element should be hundreds 28 pixels save
the changes and now let's open the terminal and run enter and run Dev.
This will compile all the assets using larval mix and this of course includes our styles so they whenever
you make changes inside SPSS files they have to be re compiled somehow.
Okay so now you should also have everything that I have and now you should have the same view and this
avatar class should be visible and this elements should always have the exact width and behave.
Now we will also have to cover this problem when someone doesn't have an in default of other image.
We could just display some default image or I know work work it out somehow but let's just not worry
about it right now.